On Wednesday, September 10th, 2025,
Charlie Kirk speaks at an event in Oram,
Utah. It is at the Sorenson Center
courtyard on the campus of Utah Valley
University.
The event, part of his American Comeback
Tour, features his signature Prove Me
Wrong debate format.
Kirk is positioned at a table beneath a
large tent. Students come up and have a
chance to ask him a question and debate
with him.
Approximately 20 minutes into his
presentation, an audience member
identified as a student questions him
about mass shootings. Do
>> you know how many transgender Americans
have been mass shooters over the last 10
years?
>> Too many.
[Applause]
>> Five. Okay. Now, five is a lot, right?
I'm going to give you I'm going to give
you some credit. Do you know what I
mean? Do you know how many there have
been in America over the last 10 years?
Kirk asks a question, but then it gets
interrupted.
>> Counting or not counting gang violence.
>> Oh my god. Go. Run. Run.
>> When Charlie is 18 years old, he speaks
at a college. He just seems like any
other young American conservative.
But at that college, he catches
someone's eye. Will Montgomery sees that
Charlie gets attention. While other
conservative speakers are boring, young
people listen to Charlie Kirk. A month
later, in September 2012, he and the
18-year-old launched Turning Point USA.
>> What Turning Point USA stands for, what
we're trying to do is we're going into
the high schools and the colleges to
challenge these textbooks that publish
flatout falsehoods and fallacies.
>> It's a nonprofit organization
established to promote conservative
values, specifically among young
Americans through high school and
college campuses. Uh, I'm only 19 years
old. I'm fighting this fight every
single day. I get to go to college
campuses, high schools. I debate
professors. I debate socialists.
>> It's not an immediate success, but
Turning Point steadily grows into
something larger than Charlie.
>> We'll probably recruit four to 5,000 new
students. Recruit like collect their
data. Um, it's a high energy conference
for us. It's a way to reward our best
members that have been
>> They organize speeches with ever bigger
conservative American thinkers. The
young Charlie Kirk quickly becomes a
fixture of the American political
conservative landscape.
>> I started an organization Turning Point
USA 2 and a half years ago around two
key values, free markets and limited
government.
>> In 2016, he speaks at the Republican
National Convention. When Trump secures
the Republican nomination, he and
Turning Point embrace the MAGA movement.
Charlie Kirk gets a direct line to the
president. At the same time, he begins
using modern media outlets as a way to
spread his political message, but
they're also a means for generating
content that gets attention.
He gets millions of views, in large part
fueled by debates on college campuses.
In 2018 comes Campus Clash, a college
tour with Candace Owens. In 2024, the
year being Brainwash Tour, a college
tour with former presidential candidate
Vivic Remiswami.
On September 10th, 2025, Kirk initiates
the American Comeback Tour, a series of
events for college students across the
United States. The format includes his
classic Prove Me Wrong table sessions
where he invites attendees to debate his
political and cultural viewpoints in a
public setting.
The event at Utah Valley University is
designated as the first stop on this
tour.
[Applause]
[Music]
Are you go get out of here?
>> Eyewitness accounts describe hearing a
loud bang.
>> Go down and see the
>> getting closer. Are they like
restricting you guys up here or what?
>> No, it's too crowded.
>> It's just there's just so much.
>> Before we had a flag and we had it so
positioned above the tent so it would be
in the camera move.
>> What was that?
>> Oh my god.
>> Holy [__] Holy [__]
[Applause]
Immediately following the sound, Charlie
Kirk's head jerks backwards. A
significant volume of blood gushes from
his neck. Although an autopsy is yet to
be released, speculations state he is
hit partially in his jugular and spine.
>> What the [__] Phone footage shows that
audience members react to the noise
instinctively,
collectively looking to the right and
then crouching down.
People scatter in multiple directions.
[Music]
>> Holy [__] His security personnel and
multiple police officers cover him and
try to bring him away to surrounding
vehicles as soon as possible.
[Music]
Stop folks.
>> Through phone recordings later released
on Twitter, a figure is identified on
the roof of the Loy Center.
>> So, there's somebody on the roof over
there.
Just saying.
>> He just ran from uh
>> over Where's my finger? Who from over
there? Ran in.
And I was right there. Just saying.
>> A building located approximately 200 yd
or 180 m from Kirk's position.
[Music]
It seems the shooter is lying in a prone
position, shooting down with a clear
view of his target. This individual is
observed both prior to and following the
shot and is seen retreating from the
rooftop. Based on these videos, the
shooter is placed at a more accurate
guesstimation of 100 to 120 m from where
Kirk is sitting. Presumably, the shooter
escapes over the roof of the building
after taking the shot.
Charlie Kirk is carried to a police
vehicle parked just behind the tent
where he is speaking from.
He's then transported to the local
Tempanogus Regional Hospital. Initial
reports indicate his condition is
critical.
Utah Valley University spokeswoman Ellen
Trainer states that a suspect is in
custody and it's not a student.
>> How dare you? How dare you? How dare
you? How dare you? How dare you?
>> Political figures begin to issue
statements. President Donald Trump posts
on Truth Social calling for prayers for
Charlie Kirk. Vice President JD Vance
also expresses calls for prayer. Utah
Governor Spencer Cox condemns the
violence as does California Governor
Gavin Newsome and many other prominent
political figures.
At 226 MDT, FBI Director Cash Patel also
announces on social media that a suspect
in the shooting is in custody.
>> Now we have a person of interest in
custody.
>> But only a couple of hours later, all
statements are retracted. Cox clarifies
that George Zinn, the individual
initially detained, is not the assassin,
but has been charged with obstruction of
justice. A second suspect is also
arrested, but later released. As of
right now, the authorities state their
investigation continues. At around 2:40
MDT, Charlie Kirk's death is finally
confirmed. President Donald Trump
announces it on Truth Social. He is
survived by his wife, daughter, and son.
To my great fellow Americans, I am
filled with grief and anger at the
heinous assassination of Charlie Kirk on
a college campus in Utah. The cause of
death is confirmed as a gunshot wound to
the neck. No further suspects have been
taken into custody as of September 11th
at the time of this upload.
President Trump orders all American
flags to be lowered to half staff across
the country until Sunday evening as a
mark of respect.
We are reminded again of how real the
present danger of political shootings is
in the United States.
>> It's a tragic day for our nation. And I
want to be very clear that this is a
political assassination.
>> For us on the outside, looking in from
Europe, it's a brutal reminder of how
politically heated things are in the
country across the ocean.
This video wasn't a walk in the park. It
took us less than a day after the
shooting happened to get a full 3D video
production in motion, and we rendered
more than 50,000 frames to be able to do
it. The only reason we could was because
of our render farm, which lets us render
Blender animations faster and more
affordably than anyone else on this
planet. And that isn't an exaggeration.
We had multiple GPUs attacking each
render at the same time. Our 3D artists
had their computers free because they
outsourced all the rendering to the
farm. It rendered faster while we could
still keep working. We had a real-time
preview that allowed us to catch and fix
mistakes while rendering this video, and
it turned our turnaround from weeks to
literal hours. If you work on 3D
productions, specifically media and
journalism, which require fast
turnarounds, I would recommend you try
the tool that made it possible to
release this video at the speed that it
was. Go to sulu/hoo to learn more.